SECTION 4: AIR TRAVEL

All air reservations are REQUIRED to be made first through the preferred Online Booking Tool (OBT) or Travel Agency if an OBT is not available in your country. Do NOT book directly with the supplier or carrier website.  

It is the traveler’s responsibility to plan, request and select the most efficient and economical travel arrangements to accomplish the trip in accordance with the Policy. 

Travel arrangements for healthcare professionals (HCPs), patients, members of the medical community, and government officials are defined in the Global Policy on Interactions with the Medical Community and Government Officials. 

1.	Advance Purchase. All air travel reservations should be ticketed at least 14 days, but not more than 60 days advance, of the travel date to obtain the best fares.  
2.	Pre-Trip Approval. Long haul trips over six (6) hours per flight in business class and travel to a High-Risk Destinations must be pre-approved via Concur Request before the ticket is booked.  Attach the Request to your expense report. 
3.	Lowest Available Fare. Travelers are required to accept the lowest available fare at the time of booking. Travelers should consider accepting connection flights when: 
a.	it does not add more than 2 hours of flight time,
b.	there is significant savings to Amazon  of at least $200 or more for a domestic trip or at least $500 or more for an international trip.    
4.	Travel Window. The OBT and the Preferred Travel Agency are programmed to search for a +/- 2-hour window of the requested departure time. You may expand the search window in the OBT.
5.	Non-refundable Fares. Non-refundable fares should be used if the fare qualifies as the lowest fare at the time of booking. Travelers should never book a more expensive fare to allow for “convenience of rescheduling” or to obtain an upgraded seat. 
6.	Class of Service. Domestic travel regardless of flight time is in Economy class of service. Purchase of First class is prohibited. International flights in business class require pre-trip approval via Concur Request. Some countries may have more restrictive business class travel rules which will be managed via REQUEST on a case-by-case basis at Manager discretion. . 

Travel Type	Travel Approval	Class of Service	Flight Time (per segment
Short Haul	Not Required	Economy	Six (6) hours or less
Long Haul 	Required	Business	Six (6) hours or greater
			
7.	Upgrades. The cost of upgrades from economy to a higher class of service are NOT reimbursable. Travelers using earned mileage rewards may upgrade provided there is no cost to Amazon . The task to request and administer mileage rewards is the responsibility of the traveler
8.	Downgrades. An employee may not downgrade an airline ticket to recoup the resulting savings/refund or to purchase a ticket for personal, guest  or companion travel.
9.	Seat Assignments.  Fees for advance seat assignments are reimbursable if booked within the eligible class of service for the flight. A ticket guarantees passage on the aircraft, it does not guarantee a pre-assigned seat. Travelers with loyalty club status may use their status to obtain a pre-assigned seat so long as there is no cost to Amazon . 
10.	Loyalty Programs. Airline miles earned while traveling on Amazon  company business may be retained by the employee. Managing the account is the sole responsibility of the employee. Cost of loyalty program benefits are not reimbursable. Employees are required to accept the lowest available fare at the time of booking without consideration of loyalty program benefit. 
11.	Unused tickets*. Unused tickets must be returned to the Travel Agency for refund or credit for future use. In some countries, unused, non-refundable tickets have value and will be kept on file for future use in accordance with fare rules. If the original passenger on the ticket does not use the ticket within 270 days of issue, Global Travel reserves the right to reclaim the residual value of the ticket for use by any Amazon  traveler. * Local/regional fare restrictions may apply or limit the ability to manage unused tickets. 
12.	Refunds. Refundable tickets when processed will appear as a credit on the traveler’s Corporate Card statement. Credits must be expensed in the Concur Expense system. Refunds may not be retained for personal use.
13.	Irregular Operations.  Air flights are subject to many disruptions including weather delays, mechanical problems, crew shortages, etc. If your flight is cancelled, you can work directly with the carrier to be rescheduled on the next available flight. This should not result in new charges to you. 

14.	Denied Boarding/Overbooking.* Occasionally air carriers overbook seats on flights and call for volunteers to be accommodated on an alternate flight. Amazon  passengers who have booked tickets via the Travel Agency should not be affected by denied boarding; your ticket identifies you as a Amazon  Corporate Traveler and most of our carrier agreements protect ticket holders from denied boarding.
 
a.	Involuntary Denied Boarding. If you are denied boarding (for whatever reason), the carrier is obligated to rebook you on the next available flight, as well as provide some form of compensation for the inconvenience. Rules vary by carrier and by country and may include a meal voucher,  hotel accommodation (if overnight stay is required until the next available flight) as well as a credit toward future travel. TRAVELERS MUST USE THE CREDIT TOWARD FUTURE BUSINESS TRAVEL. 

b.	Voluntary Denied Boarding.  If you volunteer to be accommodated on an alternate flight, you may do so only if you do not incur any expense to Amazon  and do not jeopardize the business purpose for the trip. Travelers may retain any denied boarding compensation but are personally responsible for any tax liability.
               *Local Passenger Rights laws may apply

15.	Personal & Charter Aircraft.  

a.	Personal Aircraft. At no time will personal aircraft be permitted or reimbursed for Amazon  travel. 

b.	Charter Aircraft. Employees are prohibited from traveling on non-commercial aircraft, including private or charter jets for business.  Employees are prohibited from entering into a contract with suppliers for charter or private aircraft without advanced written approval by the CEO or CFO. 

16.	Maximum Passengers per Flight. Amazon  Global Travel monitors the number of passengers per flight daily. You are expected to comply with any request to rebook your reservations if you are contacted by Amazon  Global Security or Amazon  Global Travel when the maximum number of passengers per flight is exceeded. The following restrictions on passengers allowed per flight are mandatory. 

a.	No more than 2 of the following may travel together: CEO, CFO, General Council, Global Supply Chain Officer. 
b.	No more than 50% of any leadership team should travel on the same flight. 

c.	No more than 50% of any combination of employees in the same business unit or reporting to the same SLT member should travel on the same flight. 

d.	No more than 10 employees should travel on the same flight. Exceptions may be made for approved and registered groups via Amazon  Global Meetings & Events. It is up to all employees and managers to make reasonable accommodation to mitigate this risk.  Charter flights for Meetings & Events is prohibited.
