Global Travel and Expense Reporting Policy
ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT – UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED
Printed on 21-Aug-2018 INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 10 of 20
5 AIR TRAVEL
5.1 BOOKING AIR TRAVEL
All airline arrangements must be made through Google’s approved online booking tool where available or through Google's designated travel management company (TMC).
• Airline bookings are required to be purchased using a Google sponsored credit card where accepted. Deviations will require reason at time of booking.
• For commercial flights, use the online booking tools (where available) for point-to- point, simple trips, or domestic trips.
• Travelers should select non-refundable tickets.
• Bookings should be made greater than 14 days in advance of the departure travel date to take advantage of discounted fares.
• Lowest logical airfare should be chosen using a Google preferred supplier. This includes considering adding a connection if:
o Departure/arrival window is no more than 2 hours for domestics or 4 hours or overnight for international before/after requested time
o Total travel time is not extended more than 2 hours each way
o Employees are encouraged to travel on Tuesday or Wednesday which typically have lower fares
• Use of an “Around the World" ticket should be considered for multi-stop international business travel. Work with local TMC for booking.
• The Office of the Chairman Resolution limits the number of management and skilled technical personnel traveling on the same aircraft for any one project, business or function. Each business function and subsidiary company must establish appropriate practices consistent with this resolution to prevent crippling of their management through loss of a single aircraft.
5.2 BOOKING AIRFARE CLASS OF SERVICE
The standard airline class of service for all employees is coach/economy fare.
Exceptions for business class are allowed for
• international flight segments over eight hours, not including layovers
• international flight segments less than eight hours with Line Management approval
o No formal approval process is required
o Business Class travel is subject to Senior Leadership review.
• Situations in which the seat is upgraded for free.
• Employees with medical issues that have been approved by the Health Service department.
5.3 DAY OF REST
When total travel time is longer than ten hours, one day of rest at company expense, either in route or after arriving at final destination, is allowable, subject to Line Manager approval.
Global Travel and Expense Reporting Policy
ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT – UNCONTROLLED IF PRINTED
Printed on 21-Aug-2018 INTERNAL USE ONLY Page 11 of 20
5.4 UNUSED AIRFARE
All unused airline tickets should be returned promptly to travel management company (TMC) who will obtain the credit for Google. Only the portion of the ticket used should be reported as expense on the expense report. Once the travel agency obtains the airline credit, the employee should apply it on an expense report.
5.5 PERSONAL USE OF Google CONTRACTS WITH AIRLINES
The use of the discounted Google rates for airlines is strictly limited to business related travel paid by Google.
5.6 NON-SCHEDULED AIRCRAFT
The use of private, employee owned or operated aircraft for company related business is permitted only with the prior written approval from corporate management. If authorization is given, the employee may not take other Google employees as passengers nor fly someone for hire. Google employees on company business are discouraged from riding as a passenger on a scheduled commercial single engine or single pilot aircraft. In special or unusual cases where single engine or single pilot aircraft must be used, written approval by corporate management is required. Non-scheduled commercial aircraft (charters, fractional jet shares) for business use must be arranged by Corporate Aviation.
5.7 DENIED BOARDING COMPENSATION
Airlines will compensate passengers who are denied boarding when they have confirmed reservations. An employee may keep the payment (including separate living or meal allowance) as consideration for the inconvenience. Include on the expense report any additional expenses caused by involuntary “bumping” that exceed the total denied boarding compensation.
Employees are discouraged from volunteering to be bumped from a flight. An employee who volunteers to be bumped is extending travel time for personal reasons. If for some reason an employee volunteers to be bumped, any payment received may be retained; however, the employee is personally responsible for any expenses that result from the extended trip. Volunteering to give up a seat is not allowable when it results in increased cost to the company, including work time.
