III. Air Travel
A. Use of Firm’s Designated Booking Channels
1. Meta employees are required to use the firm’s managed travel booking channels including BCD Travel (BCD) globally and the online booking tools where available for all air transportation. Because of airline regulations, failure to use firm-designated booking channels makes an employee ineligible for Meta airline discounts. Thus, using other travel agencies (including online services) or booking reservations directly with airlines burdens Meta  and its clients with significant – and needless – extra costs.
2. The travel agency is required to book travel using the employee’s American Express Corporate Credit Card.
3. Unusual exceptions to this policy require prior written approval from the appropriate Regional Unit Leader and the CFO.
4. Failure to comply with airfare and airline travel policies will result in non-reimbursement for applicable expenses.
B. Online Booking Tool
Where available, employees are requested to use the corporate-managed online booking tool for booking individual business travel reservations through the automated system. The online reservation system is accessible through Meta ’s internal network (http://getthere or http://cytric depending on your country location) and is available for business travel only, bookings for personal travel is prohibited. The online reservation system has been programmed with the travel policy guidelines. The online booking tool reservations are fulfilled by the designated travel agency. All Travel Policy guidelines apply. Violation of this policy or any other Travel Policy requirements may lead to disciplinary action, including termination.
C. Mode of Transportation
Meta  employees must use standard commercial airlines for business travel. The firm does not permit employees to operate private aircraft in the course of Meta  business; nor does it permit using charter airlines. Accordingly, no related expenses will be reimbursed.
D. Negotiated Fares
1. General: Meta -designated travel agencies will strongly recommend the use of preferred airlines with negotiated corporate rates. Employees will use the lowest of these discounted rates for their business needs, assuming it represents a reasonable travel itinerary/routing.
2. Exceptions: The following are acceptable reasons for using airlines that are not Meta -preferred:
a) Travel should be based on the lowest available fares and rates, including advance purchase, restricted or non-refundable tickets where logical.
b) Travel to locations that are not serviced by Meta -preferred airlines.
c) Travel required at times that are not offered by Meta -preferred airlines.
d) Travel with clients who do not use Meta  preferred airlines (employee must be traveling on the same flight as the client).
Global Travel Policy
Page 7 of 17
Please Note: Personal preferences, memberships in competing frequent-flier programs or other subjective criteria do not justify incurring additional airline costs to Meta  and its clients.
Employees should be aware that other air carriers may not honor tickets originally issued at Meta -negotiated rates for subsequent ticket exchange.
3. The Meta  designated travel agency is contractually bound to comply with the travel policy procedures administered by Meta  and is not permitted to downgrade and use savings to subsidize travel of a companion.
E. Route Deals
Airlines, specifically in EMEA, offer "route deals" which requires that the traveler flies the same airline on both legs of a trip. At the time of reservation the travel agent will explain the conditions and penalties of the relevant fares quoted. It is expected that employees will book the most economical total cost airfares.
F. Other Ticket Options
1. Restricted Tickets
a) Restricted (e.g., nonrefundable, advance purchase, discount) tickets are less expensive, and employees should use them whenever possible. Employees can expense charges that result from changing a restricted ticket.
b) Generally, the value of restricted tickets can be applied against the cost of future travel on the same airline within a specified time frame. Employees should familiarize themselves with these limitations.
G. Class of Service
1. First Class Travel:
First Class travel is prohibited and is not authorized for any business traveler except under exceptional circumstances that requires the Region Unit Leader or CFO approval. Traveling with a client would require this approval and verification to support the request.
2. Domestic Travel:
a) Travel Associated with Client Business: For all domestic travel, economy (coach) class will be booked and employees should take advantage of deep discount, advance purchase, route deal and non-refundable tickets, whenever possible, to take advantage of lower airfares. The Meta -designated travel agency will advise travelers of the best airfare deals available based on the traveler’s requested arrival/departure times. Consideration should be given for one hour before and after for alternative airfare options. If one leg of the trip exceeds three (3) hours, traveler may upgrade to the next class of service (from economy).
b) Travel Not Associated with Client Business: For all domestic travel, economy (coach) class will be booked and employees should take advantage of deep discount, advance purchase, route deal and non-refundable tickets, whenever possible. The Meta -designated travel agency will advise travelers of the best airfare deals available based on the traveler’s requested arrival/departure times. Consideration should be given for one hour before and after for alternative airfare options.
c) Important Note: The Project Officer or Internal Project/Event may dictate a stricter travel policy for client billable travel, internal meeting, learning programs, or any other reason for travel. This may include booking farther in
Global Travel Policy
Page 8 of 17
advance, considering a wider travel time window, non-refundable tickets, etc. You must follow the travel policy communicated with the travel purpose if one is provided.
Americas’ Exceptions:
On continuous flights, where the scheduled flight time (as noted in the itinerary) on one leg of the trip exceeds three hours for client-billable, the following procedures may be used to upgrade into business class or first class seating at the discretion of the Project Officer for client billable travel:
a) Upgrades may be requested through the designated travel agency and purchased at the airport and as with any other business expenses employees must provide proper documentation. Please refer to the document Airline Upgrade Attachment 1 – Acceptable Documentation for reimbursement requirements.
b) Travelers must not call airlines to upgrade their air reservations before the Meta  designated travel agency has issued a ticket. When an upgrade is made before actually ticketing, the original fare is cancelled, which often requires the original reservation to be rebooked, usually at a higher rate.
c) Travelers are not permitted to take “Y UP” fares that allow seats in a higher class of service such as business or first if the fare difference from economy is greater than $50 for a one-way ticket or $100 for a round trip ticket. Request of fares exceeding these thresholds will require Exception Approval from the Regional Unit Leader.
d) Employees, at the discretion of the Project Officer/Profit Center Leader, may expense coupon upgrades to the next-higher level of service when flying American Airlines. Reimbursement is contingent on employees providing the proper receipt documentation. Refer to the Eligible Cities Listing for upgrade and reimbursement amounts. Any city not listed requires prior approval. Employees must book economy seats and upgrade to the next class of service.
3. International and Intra-Continental Travel
a) Travel Associated with Client Business: All employees may travel in business class on international flights where flight time on one leg of the trip exceeds three hours. Deep discount, advance purchase tickets are to be used, whenever possible, to take advantage of lower airfares. Consideration should be given to the purchase of non-refundable tickets as a priority.
b) Travel Not Associated with Client Business (internal travel):
(1) Employees may book business class for international flights where the flight time of one leg of the trip equals or exceeds six hours. Economy (coach) class airfares are to be used for international flights of less than six hours.
(2) Deep discount, advance purchase tickets are to be used, whenever possible, to take advantage of lower airfares. Consideration should be given to the purchase of non-refundable tickets as a priority.
(3) The cost of upgrade coupons is not reimbursable.
c) Saturday Night Stay: When an overall net cost savings to Meta  results from an employee extending a business trip (such as a Saturday night stay-over to use lower excursion-rate airfares), a Project Manager/Project Officer has the authority to reimburse the employee for additional expenses incurred due to the extension of the trip. The additional expenses eligible for reimbursement are limited to the cost of one additional night’s lodging and a reasonable allowance for one additional day’s meals. The cost savings should be measured against the lowest available airfare for a direct flight at the time the trip is originally booked. Documentation to support the cost savings must be maintained by the Project Manager/Officer. This option is only available if the extension of the business trip is for the firm’s and/or client’s benefit.
Global Travel Policy
Page 9 of 17
d) Important Note: The Project Officer or Internal Project/Event may dictate a stricter travel policy for client billable travel, internal meeting, learning programs, or any other reason for travel. This may include booking farther in advance, considering a wider travel time window, non-refundable tickets, etc. For international or intercontinental travel, you may also be required to book Economy or Economy Plus. You must follow the travel policy communicated with the travel purpose if one is provided.
H. Accompanied Travel
1. Travel expense of a companion traveling with an employee to certain pre-approved Meta  business functions will be reimbursed only with prior written approval from the Region Unit Leader and CFO. Such travel expense will not be grossed up. The travel expense of a spouse/other person traveling with an employee to non-business functions is not approved for reimbursement.
2. For client travel, a Project Officer can authorize employees to incur the travel expense of a companion in lieu of their own travel expense when such plans result in no additional cost to the client. Employees should be aware that in such situations companion or spousal travel is reimbursed as part of an employee’s monthly payroll check. Such travel is treated as additional income to the employee and will be added to the employee’s tax forms in compliance with country tax rules. Such companion travel will not be grossed up for tax purposes.
3. Employees themselves, not their traveling companions, should pay for approved accompanied travel using their American Express Corporate Credit Card when the companion travel is approved for reimbursement. Employees must provide a personal credit card for payment of companion travel not approved for reimbursement. Traveling companions require the same travel routing and flight itinerary. Approvals may be required.
I. Number of Employees on the Same Flight
The following guidelines have been established to define the number of Meta  employees allowed per a single flight. Employees should adhere to the guidelines as outlined below:
1. CEO and CFO should travel separately
2. No more than 50% of the Senior Leadership Team members should travel together
3. No more than 50% of the Board of Director members should travel together
4. No more than 15 partners should travel together
5. No more than 25% of a practice should travel together (applies to partners only)
J. Cancellation/Refunds
1. Reservations must be canceled directly with the travel agency. Any unused or partially used tickets must be communicated to the travel agency as soon as possible for refund.
2. The refund process may take the airline up to two billing statements to post the refund value. You may request that the corporate credit card provider freeze the amount by contacting them in advance as opposed to paying the amount since it can take up to 10 weeks for the refund to be processed.
3. For airline tickets charged directly to a corporate credit card account (Meeting Card or BTA), those charges will be reconciled with refunds credited to the appropriate account as reported by the corporate credit card provider.
K. Global Entry, TSA PreCheck and NEXUS
Global Travel Policy
Page 10 of 17
Employees required to travel on behalf of Meta  business, may be reimbursed for one of the following: Global Entry program, TSA PreCheck or NEXUS. Global Entry is a U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) program that allows expedited clearance for pre-approved, low-risk travelers upon arrival in the United States. TSA PreCheck is a U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) initiative to provide the most effective airline security in the most efficient way. NEXUS allows pre-screened travelers expedited processing when entering the United States and Canada.
IV. Rail and Ferry Travel
Rail and ferry reservations are to be made through the Meta -designated booking channels. All rail and ferry travel does not require approval and may be booked in economy or first class.
V. Ground Transportation
Before traveling, employees should determine the most economical and flexible type of ground transportation using preferred suppliers (taxi, rental car, private car service, hotel courtesy van, etc.).
A. Local Transportation
Using taxis or rideshare (i.e., Uber) is acceptable for short distances, local business-related travel, trips to and from airports, and the like. Expensed taxi or rideshare transportation between an employee’s home and the Meta  office to which he or she is assigned is not permitted and will not be reimbursed.
In the event that an employee does not have an automobile and is required to travel to a client in the employee’s local home area, the employee may use Zipcar, or similar car sharing service, to drive to the client location. When using such services, the employee is required to charge the expense to the American Express Corporate Credit Card.
B. Private Car Service
Using a private car service is permitted if it is more economical than other means of transportation. Use of private car service for suburban-airport travel is acceptable as an alternative mode of travel when cost justifies. Regular private car service between an employee’s home and the Meta  office to which he or she is assigned is not permitted and will not be reimbursed.
C. Meet and Greet Services, Private Car Services
Employees should not request meet and greet services when there is an additional or premium cost. There may be rare exceptions where this level of service is required. Fees for time are incremental when there are flight delays. Employees should always confirm the rates offered for their reservations prior to transportation.
D. After-Hours Transportation
For security reasons, employees are permitted to expense the use of taxis or rideshare (i.e., Uber), or other such transportation, for travel to or from their homes depending on your country’s policy, but typically after 8:00 PM or two hours after shift end (whichever is later) on
Global Travel Policy
Page 11 of 17
weekdays and on weekends. All expenses are to be paid by the employee and then reimbursed.
E. Car Hire/Rental
Please note, cars should not be hired/rented if you have a company car or are eligible for a company car. Car hire should be agreed upon in advance with your Project Officer or Profit Center Leader.
1. Rental Car Arrangements
a) All reservations for rental cars, vans, or other specialty-vehicle types that may be required for company business are required to be made through the firm-designated booking channels and charged to the American Express corporate credit card. The specific Meta  corporate account number associated with the rental car company must be entered in the booking record. Mid-size cars or smaller should always be requested, unless a project specifically requires a larger vehicle, which requires Project Officer approval.
b) The travel agency is required to book travel using the employee’s American Express Corporate Credit Card, or company designated card.
c) Upon check-in, travelers should always ask counter staff about any promotional rates that might be lower than the confirmed rate.
d) The Meta -designated travel agency will assist employees in determining the most appropriate rental car company to use in a given location should the preferred vendors be sold out. Employees should not use client-negotiated rental car agreements.
e) Cancellations must be made through the travel agency or online booking tool where available as soon as possible.
f) Failure to comply with car rental policies will result in non-reimbursement for applicable expenses.
2. Meta -Preferred Car Rental Providers:
a) Avis (Global Primary Preferred)
b) Sixt (Primary for Germany, Austria and Switzerland employees only)
c) Hertz (back up, may be used only when Avis is sold out)
3. Rental Requirements
a) All major rental car companies require a valid driver’s license and a major credit card (American Express Corporate Credit Card).
b) Non-employees are not permitted to drive rental cars that have been billed to Meta  or its clients.
c) Upon check-in, travelers should ask counter staff to confirm that the rates include (1) insurance for damage to the rental car and (2) auto liability insurance. See insurance section below.
d) Travelers 21 years old or under, who expect to rent a car from a major rental car company, should first check with the Meta -designated travel agency to confirm their eligibility as certain cities, states or countries may have different requirements.
4. Mileage Caps
In some countries Meta  agreements with car rental companies are based upon mileage limitations. If an employee expects to exceed this mileage, he or she should request the “unlimited mileage” rental rate.
5. Refueling
When renting Avis in the U.S., employees may return the vehicle without refueling as the refueling cap is $0.35 plus the national average price per gallon. Otherwise, employees should return rentals with full gasoline or opt for the “fuel-purchase option” at the time of rental at all domestic United States corporate-operated locations.
Global Travel Policy
Page 12 of 17
6. Traffic/Parking Violations
Employees are responsible for paying any moving violation or parking fines they incur when driving a rental car – these fines are not reimbursable.
7. Rental Car Insurance
a) Agreements with preferred suppliers: Meta  employees who rent a car while on company business have insurance coverage under the local terms and conditions of the rental car agreements with Avis (Global Primary), Sixt (Primary for Germany, Austria and Switzerland), and Hertz (back up). Insurance agreements with these vendors usually provides automobile liability insurance and covers property damage to the rented vehicle in most countries for business rentals, but travelers are responsible for verifying coverage in each country prior to renting a car.
b) If the local agreement does not include Collision Damage Waiver (CDW) and Loss or Damage Waiver (LDW) the traveler should purchase the insurance as required from the vendor. Corporate insurance policies provide automobile liability coverage which is in excess of that provided by the rental car vendor. The corporate policies require this underlying insurance.
c) The American Express corporate credit card may provide limited rental car insurance coverage, depending upon country location and local agreements. All Meta  employees are authorized drivers provided they meet statutory age requirements and hold a valid driver’s license. All such drivers are insured by the rental agencies when renting a car from these companies and while driving on company business provided the proper account numbers are used (see below).
d) When renting a car, the employee must include the following Meta  account numbers in the booking record to receive the insurance protection:
Avis (Global Primary Supplier)
Australia
P468200
Canada
Q217700
United States
Q217700
Rest Of World
K000200
Sixt (Primary for Germany, Austria and Switzerland)
Austria
9962074
Germany
793575
Switzerland
9943396 Sixt (EMEA Secondary Supplier)
Belgium
9962076
Netherlands
9962113
Slovenia
9962107
Czech Republic
9962078
Norway
9962090
Spain
9962110
Denmark
9962079
Poland
9962103
Sweden
9962112
Finland
9962081
Portugal
9962104
United Arab Emirates
9962115
France
9962086
Romania
9962105
United Kingdom
9962116
Italy
9962089
Russia
9962106
Hertz (Back Up)
Australia
1575426
Indonesia
1772789
Singapore
1772793
Belgium
683795
Italy
661228
Slovenia
683800
Brazil
1772792
Japan
1772794
South Africa
761816
Canada
1772795
Malaysia
1772790
Spain
683801
China
1772786
Mexico
1772791
Sweden
683805
Czech Republic
683804
Netherlands
683794
Thailand
1772785
Denmark
822996
Norway
831161
United Arab Emirates
683797
Finland
685818
