Global travel and entertainment policy, May 2017, version 3.0 7
General policy statements
Conditions
Alternatives to travel
Unnecessary travel shall be avoided or minimised by making use of teleconferencing, virtual meetings and
video conferencing, consolidating meetings around anticipated trips and where possible limiting the
number of employees travelling to the same meeting.
Approval process
All travel requires approval by the Direct Manager according to the local process.
Travel booking methods
Business trips shall be booked through Microsoft’s Preferred Travel Agency. Where possible, booking with
the Preferred Travel Agency shall be done through the online booking tool rather than offline booking.
Offline booking should only be used for more complex itineraries.
Employees may not use the online booking tool to book personal travel.
Booking travel directly with suppliers (e.g. on the internet) is not allowed unless it is not possible to book via
the Preferred Travel Agency (e.g. some low cost airlines).
Advance booking
Employees are expected to plan and book trips preferably 14-28 days in advance in order to take advantage
of discounted fare offerings.
Lowest cost arrangement principle
Employees should always take the most logical option within a defined time frame, with the lowest cost
and restricted tickets, offered by the preferred Travel Agency. Connecting flights are not required as a low
fare option. Any deviations from this rule are considered exceptions and require approval by the Direct
Manager.
Form of payment
The airline tickets purchased by Microsoft employees will be charged to centrally billed Citi lodge cards.
Airline tickets purchased with low cost airlines, which do not accept the lodge card form of payment, should
be purchased using personal (company) credit cards.
For hotel and car rental reservations, employees must use their personal (company) credit cards.
7/18
Global travel and entertainment policy, May 2017, version 3.0 8/188
Payment of expenses
All card transactions (lodge and company card transaction) should be included in the expense report. These
transactions will automatically appear in Concur and should be included in the relevant travel claim.
For the company credit card and cash payments employees must retain and include the original receipt
in their expense report. In order to be reimbursed the employee must complete the expense statement in
Concur, attaching the image of the original supporting documentation (invoice or receipt from the supplier)
in addition in some countries the original invoices must be handed over to local Finance for compliance
reasons. The names and company names of any third party participants must be clearly stated.
Managers are expected to review and approve claims within a reasonable time frame, so as to ensure that
employees are reimbursed in a timely manner for out-of-pocket expenses.
If an expense claim has not been approved by the Direct Manager within 15 working days of the submission
of the claim, Microsoft retains the right to automatically approve the employee claim.
Travel and entertainment expenses must comply with purchasing, finance and legal requirements at all
times. This will be audited by Microsoft.
Business continuity principle
To reduce the risk of a potential loss of employees in the unlikely case of an accident, the following
guidelines are strongly recommended regarding the number of Microsoft employees travelling by the same
means of transport (plane, train, personal vehicle, taxi, or all other modes of transportation):
• No more than three executives (Executive Committee, Divisional Committees, Key Functional Heads and
other executives)
• No more than five managers
• No more than ten employees
Combining business travel and holiday
Combining business travel with personal holiday carries the risk of a conflict of the employee’s interest and
those of the company. Therefore, it is only allowed within the very strict limits detailed below in order to
avoid prejudice to the company.
• The direct manager will be required to challenge any such proposals and ensure that business, and not
leisure, dictates the travel constraints.
• Under no circumstances will the company incur any constraints – either business (e.g. dates, changing
arrangements or appointments) or financially – to suit personal convenience.
• The employee will cover all incremental costs relating to personal holiday travel (extra travel costs
resulting from alternate bookings, etc.).
• For this reason, the travel agency will be asked to provide a quote for the travel without holiday and the
employee must cover the difference.
Global travel and entertainment policy, May 2017, version 3.0 9/198
Spouse, family, companion
Employees may take a spouse, family member or companion on a business trip, but at their own expense.
As a consequence, Microsoft will not reimburse any incremental expenses. The employee needs to fulfil all
his or her business requirements during the trip. The travel companion (spouse, family member, companion
or other third party) must not attend any Microsoft business meetings.
Relocation
For international assignment and relocations reimbursements of the relevant expatriate policies and procedures
need to be followed.
Global travel and entertainment policy, May 2017, version 3.0 10/1108
Flights
For air travel employees should only use approved carriers. Airlines not approved by IATA (International Air
Transport Association) list should not be used. This is only a guidance.
Class of service
Economy class is required on all flights, regardless of their duration. An exception may be made for certain
frequent flyers, where travel over five hours will be permitted in business class. The exception will be
approved based on business needs by the relevant Executive Committee member.
Frequent traveller programmes
Loyalty programmes offered by airlines, hotels or rental car companies are allowed. Individual employees
can use the benefits for personal use unless decided otherwise. Loyalty programmes must never influence
the choice of an airline, hotel and/or rental car company and can never be a reason for travelling.
