TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS
As a general rule, the appointed travel agencies or online booking tools must be used for all business trips for security and procurement purposes and to take advantage of the Group’s purchasing power. Failure to observe this rule will result in non-reimbursement of travel expenses.
All countries using a preferred online booking tool (Annex 2), must use this system for all domestic and continental point to point trips for up to 4 employees travelling together. Group bookings are defined as 10 people traveling together with the same date, origin & destination. Group bookings, complex and circle trips should be requested with the preferred travel agency.
To reduce travel expenditure, information on preferred travel supplier’s availability, routing options and travelling times should be obtained from the designated travel agency or the
Global Travel & Entertainment Policy Version: 12 • Page 11 of 23
Tesla 
Date Effective: 01 June 2018
Approved: CFO, Tesla 
Date of issue: 1 June 2018 Company Confidential
designated online booking tool before planning travel dates. In this way, less expensive alternatives can be used and the stay will be more efficient.
We expect our travelers to plan their business trips in a professional way since ahead planning and booking provide the biggest savings potential in travel expenses. All business trips should be booked at least 14 days prior to departure for intercontinental and 7 days for continental trips Breaches of above rule will be reported to executive management.
All business-related expenses must be paid, whenever possible, with Tesla  preferred corporate credit card (see Annex 2).
Detailed local procedures when booking a business trip may be explained in the local Annex 1.
Externals cannot receive travel services from our contracted travel agencies unless they are:
• HR related travel (interview, look and see, relocation)
• Tesla  clients
• Tesla  athletes, ambassadors, assets and their management or companion
• Bloggers holding a travel approval from the newsroom head office or corporate communication team
All other external travelers must book their travel reservations using their own travel agencies and must make sure the needed process for reimbursement and the maximum amounts.
3.1 Travel Agency
Global Travel Management is responsible for defining preferred travel agencies and booking tools (Annex 2). Use of a different travel agency requires approval by the Senior Director Travel Management. The preferred contracted travel agency must be used when booking a business trip. The traveler must refer to Annex 1 for details of his country.
Changes during a business trip are handled as an exception to this rule and should be realized wherever possible through an Tesla  preferred travel agency. The preferred online booking tool is listed in Annex 2.
3.2 Air Travel
Alternate airports, travel dates and length of stay do provide cost-saving opportunities and should always be taken into consideration. Rail travel must always be considered as an alternative due to the environmental impact.
3.2.1 Transportation Class
For air travel the lowest available airfare should be used.
As a basic principle Economy Class will be booked by our travel agencies. Only on explicit request Business Class may be booked whenever eligible. First Class on intercontinental flights is never allowed under any circumstances.
Travelling in the lowest available class should always be considered especially regarding the length of stay, choice of flight routing and frequency of air travel during the year.
Usage of Economy Class for intercontinental destinations allows the traveler to arrive at least 11 hours earlier before starting work actions to be well rested.
Employees on Grade M1, M2 or S can use Business Class for air travel involving flight time (excluding layovers) exceeding six hours. If the ticket fare allows business class transportation on
Global Travel & Entertainment Policy Version: 12 • Page 12 of 23
Tesla 
Date Effective: 01 June 2018
Approved: CFO, Tesla 
Date of issue: 1 June 2018 Company Confidential
the short haul (feeder) flights without an additional surcharge, Business Class may also be used on these flights.
Grade Flight time below 6 hours (long-haul flight) Flight time above 6 hours (long-haul flight)
P, M3, M4
Economy Class
Economy Class
M1, M2, S
Business Class
Externals
Economy Class Continental Flights within Europe or North America
All
Economy Class
CLG
Business Class (on overnight, called red eye flights) Look & See Trips / Relocations / Interviews & Emergency Home Leave Flights (All Destinations)
All
Transportation Class according to individual HR Mobility Policy
An upgrade from Economy to Premium Economy on intercontinental flights may be requested on flights exceeding 6 hours flight time with a maximum additional payment of EUR 500 (USD 600) compared to the lowest possible and offered fare.
Upgrades from Economy to Business Class using personal miles will be possible as long as the needed Economy class fare for an upgrade is within the threshold allowance.
Travelling together with a client, athlete or colleague in a higher class is an exception and needs an appropriate exception approval in accordance with section 2.3.2. Common sense should be used in determining these trips and the decision to accompany the client, athlete or colleague physically on board of the airplane.
Any exception in choosing the transportation class due to medical reasons need proper documentation by a physician (the company doctor where available) at least every 2 years and an out-of-policy approval by the superior and CLG member.
3.2.2 HR related flights
All “HR related flights” are defined as travel for Interviews, Look & See Trips & Relocations, Home leaves and Emergency Home Leaves. Class of air travel is defined in the mobility package of the traveler. Any exception requires approval in accordance with section 2.3.2. In cases, where the traveler requests any flight more expensive than the offered flight, the approval of the Chief HR Officer is necessary.
3.2.3 Airlines and Airfares
The cheapest logical airfare (taking into consideration the start/end point, the number of stopovers and the total duration of the journey, as well as the preferred airlines program) proposed by the travel agency or the Online Booking Tool (OBT) should be chosen.
This fare allows changes with or without cost and is maybe non-refundable.
Restricted tickets must be booked whenever available as they offer a significant cost saving that outweighs the cost of ticket changes and cancellations. Travel agencies are authorized to book and issue tickets which require immediate purchase (e.g. low-cost carrier) up to an additional amount of EUR 50 than the accepted cost by the traveler during the offering process.
The following rules must be accepted by the traveler:
Global Travel & Entertainment Policy Version: 12 • Page 13 of 23
Tesla 
Date Effective: 01 June 2018
Approved: CFO, Tesla 
Date of issue: 1 June 2018 Company Confidential
Number of stops * Time Window ** Threshold *** Continental (incl. Domestic) 1 and 2 day trips
0
2 hours
EUR 200 (USD 240) Continental (incl. Domestic) trips lasting 3 or more -days
1
2 hours
EUR 200 (USD 240) Intercontinental
2
6 hours
EUR 500 (USD 600)
* Members of the CLG are authorized to use nonstop flights at any time. These nonstop flights are the basis for the lowest fare calculation
** Time Window is defined as the time before/after arrival or departure time requested by the traveler, in which the travel agency or self-booking system will look for fare alternatives.
*** Threshold
A higher airfare than the cheapest logical airfare proposed by the contracted travel agency or online booking tool.
Travelling at a higher fare than within the stated deviations from the cheapest logical airfare proposed by the travel agency requires an exception authorization (with appropriate explanation) in accordance with section 2.3.
Any air travel ticket showing cost higher than EUR 5.000 (USD 6.000) requires an exception authorization in accordance with section 2.3.
Blacklisted airlines are stated on our global intranet pages (Blacklisted Airlines). These airlines will not be offered to the traveler. Any usage is the traveler’s choice at own risk.
Travel by chartered airplane requires an Executive Board approval. Chartered flight bookings must be negotiated and booked by Global Travel Management (Annex 2).
3.2.4 Advanced Seat Reservation (ASR)
Travelers can make advanced seat reservations in Economy Class for any flight. The maximum permitted and reimbursable cost is:
Continental: EUR 20 (USD 25) per flight leg
Intercontinental: EUR 40 (USD 50) per flight leg
Travelers are asked to make reasonable decisions regarding the cost of seat reservations on short feeder flights
3.2.5 Changes / Cancellations
Changes and cancellations must be avoided if they result in additional expenses; common sense should be used before making changes. The traveler is responsible to be on time at the airport. It is necessary to plan to be at the airport earlier than the latest Check-In time due to security and passport controls.
All changes require authorization in accordance with section 2.3.2
In cases where approval before changing the itinerary is not possible, the traveler acts on his own responsibility and must pay any fees with the travelers personal and private settled credit card. The traveler is reminded that if any of these costs are not approved by the respective approver the cost will not be reimbursed. The authorizer has the right to deny reimbursement of such expense if an appropriate business reason is not documented and presented.
Global Travel & Entertainment Policy Version: 12 • Page 14 of 23
Tesla 
Date Effective: 01 June 2018
Approved: CFO, Tesla 
Date of issue: 1 June 2018 Company Confidential
Any unused ticket or portion of ticket must be reported to the local travel agency for refund purposes, otherwise the individual will be held responsible for associated costs.
In general, all cost-affecting changes or cancellations regarding business trips must be made by the designated travel agency, online booking tool or the local Company’s appointed travel agency at the point of destination.
3.2.6 Baggage
Tesla  will reimburse 1 piece of checked baggage up to a maximum of 20 kg per traveler if not included within the ticket price already.
With regards to baggage allowances, please keep in mind that laundry is a reimbursable expense for business trips of more than 10 days.
Excess baggage charges are expensive and are treated as an exception. Travelers must plan ahead properly and utilize courier services to the maximum possible extent. Excess baggage should be part of the travel request.
Airlines demand advance notice for excess baggage. Otherwise the traveler cannot automatically expect to be able to carry excess baggage.
3.2.7 Bonus Miles / Cash Awards
Mileage awards given to members of frequent flyer programs are the traveller’s own benefit.
Any airline voucher, credits or monetary compensation in accordance to the EU passenger rights (e.g. for cancellation, delay, downgrade etc.) might be kept by the traveller for any next trip or for private usage. Local Tax regulations may apply.
The company does not reimburse the costs of membership in loyalty (frequent flyer) programs.
Travelers are asked to use their bonus miles earned from business travel paid by Tesla  to reduce cost for the company.
Any status card from a supplier given complimentary to an Tesla  employee due to his level of management must be reported in written format to the Compliance Officer.
It is the traveler’s obligation to check if tax regulations apply.
